README.md, before:


<p align="center">
    <img alt="Kuikly Logo"  src="img/kuikly_logo.svg" />
</p>

English | [简体中文](./README-zh_CN.md) | [Homepage](https://framework.tds.qq.com/)


## Introduction
`Kuikly` is a comprehensive cross-platform solution for UI and logic based on Kotlin multi-platform. It was launched by Tencent's company-level Oteam in the front-end field. It aims to provide a `high-performance, full-platform development framework with unified codebase, ultimate ease of use, and dynamic flexibility`. Currently supported platforms:
- [X] Android
- [X] iOS
- [X] HarmonyOS
- [ ] Web (Open-source in Q2)
- [ ] Mini Programs (Open-source in Q2)

Since its launch, `Kuikly` has gained wide recognition from the business. It has been used by many products such as QQ, QQ Music, QQ Browser, Tencent News, Sogou Input Method, MyApp Hub(Tencent's app store), WeSing, Kugou Music, Kuwo Music, Tencent Self-selected Stock, ima.copilot, Weishi, etc.
## Key Features

- **Cross-platform:** Kotlin-based implementation ensuring consistent operation across multiple platforms - one codebase, five platforms
- **Native performance:** Generates platform-native binaries (.aar/.framework/.so)
- **Native development experience:** Native UI rendering, native toolchain support, Kotlin as primary language
- **Lightweight:** Minimal SDK footprint (AOT mode: ~300KB for Android, ~1.2MB for iOS)
- **Dynamic capability:** Supports compilation into dynamic deliverables
- **Multiple paradigms:** Supports both declarative & reactive programming, with self-developed DSL and Compose DSL

## Project Structure

```shell
.
├── core                    # Cross-platform module implementing core capabilities like responsive UI, layout algorithms, Bridge communication, etc.
  ├── src
    ├──	commonMain            # Shared cross-platform code, defining cross-platform interfaces
    ├── androidMain           # Android platform implementation (outputs aar)
    ├── jvmMain               # Generic JVM platform code (no Android APIs, outputs jar)
    ├── iosMain               # iOS platform implementation (outputs framework)
    ├── ohosArm64Main         # Ohos platform implementation（outputs so）
├── core-render-android    # Android platform renderer module
├── core-render-ios        # iOS platform renderer module
├── core-render-ohos       # HarmonyOS platform rendering module
├── core-annotations       # Annotations module, defining business annotations like @Page
├── core-ksp               # Annotation processing module, generates Core entry files
├── buildSrc               # Build scripts for compilation, packaging, and artifact splitting
├── demo                   # DSL example code
├── androidApp             # Android host shell project
├── iosApp                 # iOS host shell project
├── ohosApp                # Ohos host shell project
├── compose                # Cross-platform module implementing Compose UI, layout, and Kuikly bridging capabilities
    ├── src
        ├── commonMain      # Shared cross-platform code, including Compose UI components, layout and event handling
        ├── androidMain     # Android platform specific implementation
        └── nativeMain      # iOS and HarmonyOS platform specific implementation
```

> Note: The Compose directory contains cross-platform source code based on Jetpack Compose 1.7.3 version. We have made necessary modifications and adaptations to the original Compose code to support Kuikly framework's rendering requirements. Some unnecessary features have been commented out to facilitate future upgrades. To ensure stable feature support and avoid conflicts with official code, we have changed the package name from `androidx.compose` to `com.tencent.kuikly.compose`. The original Compose code is from [JetBrains Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform-core).

## System Requirements
- iOS 12.0+
- Android 5.0+
- HarmonyOS Next 5.0.0(12)+
- Kotlin 1.3.10+

## Getting Started

- [Quick Start](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/%E5%BF%AB%E9%80%9F%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B/hello-world.html)
- [Integration Guide](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/%E5%BF%AB%E9%80%9F%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B/overview.html)
- [Component Features](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/API/%E7%BB%84%E4%BB%B6/override.html)

## Building from Source
### Environment Setup
Refer to [Environment Configuration](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/%E5%BF%AB%E9%80%9F%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B/env-setup.html)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)

    if your Android Studio Version >= (2024.2.1) Please switch your Gradle JDK Version to JDK17
    (this Version default Gradle JDK is 21, it incompatible with the configuration used by the project)

    Android Studio -> Settings -> Build,Execution,Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle -> Gradle JDK
- [XCode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and [cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org/)
- [DevEco Studio 5.1.0 or newer](https://developer.huawei.com/consumer/cn/deveco-studio/)(API Version >= 18)(You can check the API Version through【 DevECo Studio -> Help -> About HarmonyOS SDK 】)
- JDK17

### Running Android App
Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. Open `KuiklyUI` root directory in `Android Studio` and sync project
2. Select androidApp configuration, then Run 'androidApp'

### Running iOS App
Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. Navigate to `iosApp` directory
2. Execute `pod install --repo-update`
3. Open `KuiklyUI` root directory in Android Studio and sync project
4. Select iOSApp configuration, then Run 'iOSApp'

Alternatively, open KuiklyUI/iosApp in Xcode and Run

> Note: The iosApp project will execute the KMP script when compiling. If you encounter an error with the script read and write file permissions, you need to set `User Script Sandboxing` to `No` in `Xcode -> Build Setting`.

### Running Ohos APP

Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. In `KuiklyUI` root director Run kuikly Ohos product compile script, `./2.0_ohos_test_publish.sh`
2. Open `KuiklyUI/ohosApp` in DevEco Studio and sync project
3. Connect to Ohos Phone or start the Ohos Emulator, and perform a signature operation `File -> Project Structure -> Signing Configs`
4. Use DevEco Studio Run `entry`, Run OhosApp  

Notes: kuikly Ohos product only supports Mac compilation, Windows can use the compiled ohos product to run Ohos APP.

### Kotlin Version Support
The KuiklyUI directory contains Gradle configurations for various `Kotlin versions`:

Naming convention: `x.x.xx.gradle.kts` (default uses Kotlin 2.0.21)

Test publishing scripts for each version are available as `x.x.xx_test_publish.sh` for building local artifacts.

> Note: Kotlin 1.3.10/1.4.20 require JDK11

After successful build on any platform, you can modify Core, Render, and Demo to experience `Kuikly` development.


## Roadmap
[Roadmap (2025)](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/%E5%8D%9A%E5%AE%A2/roadmap2025.html)

## Contribution Guidelines
We welcome all developers to submit issues or PRs for `Kuikly`. Please review our [Contribution Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before contributing.

## Code of Conduct
All project participants are expected to adhere to our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Participation constitutes agreement to these terms.

## FAQs
[`Kuikly` Q&A](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/QA/kuikly-qa.html)

## Contributors
- Special thanks to the first batch of contributors tom(邱良雄), kam(林锦涛), and watson(金盎), who not only pioneered the incubation and exploration of the Kuikly cross-platform solutions in the frontend field, but also were the first to implement them in the QQ business.
- Thanks to the following core contributors for the continuous construction, maintenance, development and optimization of `Kuikly`:
 <br>tom kam watson rocky jonas ruifan pel layen bird zealot zhenhua vinney xuanxi arnon alexa allens eason

## Application Cases
### Application Integration
At Tencent, Kuikly has been deeply used by 20+ applications, covering 1,000+ pages and serving 500 million+ daily active users, meeting diverse complex requirements across various scenarios.
<div style="display: inline-block; text-align: left;">
  <img src="img/applications.png" width="85%">
</div>
Since going open-source, more external applications beyond Tencent have been actively adopting Kuikly. Additional use cases will be progressively shared upon obtaining approval from respective partners.

### Scenario Examples
For typical business application scenarios, please refer to: [Application Scenario Cases](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/%E7%AE%80%E4%BB%8B/application_cases.html)

## Stay Connected
Scan the QR codes below to follow our latest updates or contact us for inquiries.
<p align="left">
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center; margin-right: 20px;">
        <div>TDS WeChat Official Account</div>
        <img alt="TDS" src="img/tds_qrcode.jpg" width="200" />
    </div>
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center; margin-right: 20px;">
        <div>TDS Framework WeChat Official Account</div>
        <img alt="TDS Framework WeChat Official Account" src="img/tds_framework_qrcode.jpg" width="200" />
    </div>
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center;">
        <div>Online Support</div>
        <img alt="Online Consult" src="img/consult_qrcode.png" width="200" />
    </div>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: add demo app experience qrcode (#244)
* docs: add demo app experience qrcode

* docs: readme update docs link

README.md, after:


<p align="center">
    <img alt="Kuikly Logo"  src="img/kuikly_logo.svg" />
</p>

English | [简体中文](./README-zh_CN.md) | [Homepage](https://framework.tds.qq.com/)


## Introduction
`Kuikly` is a comprehensive cross-platform solution for UI and logic based on Kotlin multi-platform. It was launched by Tencent's company-level Oteam in the front-end field. It aims to provide a `high-performance, full-platform development framework with unified codebase, ultimate ease of use, and dynamic flexibility`. Currently supported platforms:
- [X] Android
- [X] iOS
- [X] HarmonyOS
- [ ] Web (Open-source in Q2)
- [ ] Mini Programs (Open-source in Q2)

Since its launch, `Kuikly` has gained wide recognition from the business. It has been used by many products such as QQ, QQ Music, QQ Browser, Tencent News, Sogou Input Method, MyApp Hub(Tencent's app store), WeSing, Kugou Music, Kuwo Music, Tencent Self-selected Stock, ima.copilot, Weishi, etc.
## Key Features

- **Cross-platform:** Kotlin-based implementation ensuring consistent operation across multiple platforms - one codebase, five platforms
- **Native performance:** Generates platform-native binaries (.aar/.framework/.so)
- **Native development experience:** Native UI rendering, native toolchain support, Kotlin as primary language
- **Lightweight:** Minimal SDK footprint (AOT mode: ~300KB for Android, ~1.2MB for iOS)
- **Dynamic capability:** Supports compilation into dynamic deliverables
- **Multiple paradigms:** Supports both declarative & reactive programming, with self-developed DSL and Compose DSL

## Project Structure

```shell
.
├── core                    # Cross-platform module implementing core capabilities like responsive UI, layout algorithms, Bridge communication, etc.
  ├── src
    ├──	commonMain            # Shared cross-platform code, defining cross-platform interfaces
    ├── androidMain           # Android platform implementation (outputs aar)
    ├── jvmMain               # Generic JVM platform code (no Android APIs, outputs jar)
    ├── iosMain               # iOS platform implementation (outputs framework)
    ├── ohosArm64Main         # Ohos platform implementation（outputs so）
├── core-render-android    # Android platform renderer module
├── core-render-ios        # iOS platform renderer module
├── core-render-ohos       # HarmonyOS platform rendering module
├── core-annotations       # Annotations module, defining business annotations like @Page
├── core-ksp               # Annotation processing module, generates Core entry files
├── buildSrc               # Build scripts for compilation, packaging, and artifact splitting
├── demo                   # DSL example code
├── androidApp             # Android host shell project
├── iosApp                 # iOS host shell project
├── ohosApp                # Ohos host shell project
├── compose                # Cross-platform module implementing Compose UI, layout, and Kuikly bridging capabilities
    ├── src
        ├── commonMain      # Shared cross-platform code, including Compose UI components, layout and event handling
        ├── androidMain     # Android platform specific implementation
        └── nativeMain      # iOS and HarmonyOS platform specific implementation
```

> Note: The Compose directory contains cross-platform source code based on Jetpack Compose 1.7.3 version. We have made necessary modifications and adaptations to the original Compose code to support Kuikly framework's rendering requirements. Some unnecessary features have been commented out to facilitate future upgrades. To ensure stable feature support and avoid conflicts with official code, we have changed the package name from `androidx.compose` to `com.tencent.kuikly.compose`. The original Compose code is from [JetBrains Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform-core).

## System Requirements
- iOS 12.0+
- Android 5.0+
- HarmonyOS Next 5.0.0(12)+
- Kotlin 1.3.10+

## Getting Started

- [Quick Start](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/QuickStart/hello-world.html)
- [Integration Guide](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/QuickStart/overview.html)
- [Component Features](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/API/components/override.html)

## Building from Source
### Environment Setup
Refer to [Environment Configuration](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/QuickStart/env-setup.html)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)

    if your Android Studio Version >= (2024.2.1) Please switch your Gradle JDK Version to JDK17
    (this Version default Gradle JDK is 21, it incompatible with the configuration used by the project)

    Android Studio -> Settings -> Build,Execution,Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle -> Gradle JDK
- [XCode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and [cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org/)
- [DevEco Studio 5.1.0 or newer](https://developer.huawei.com/consumer/cn/deveco-studio/)(API Version >= 18)(You can check the API Version through【 DevECo Studio -> Help -> About HarmonyOS SDK 】)
- JDK17

### Running Android App
Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. Open `KuiklyUI` root directory in `Android Studio` and sync project
2. Select androidApp configuration, then Run 'androidApp'

### Running iOS App
Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. Navigate to `iosApp` directory
2. Execute `pod install --repo-update`
3. Open `KuiklyUI` root directory in Android Studio and sync project
4. Select iOSApp configuration, then Run 'iOSApp'

Alternatively, open KuiklyUI/iosApp in Xcode and Run

> Note: The iosApp project will execute the KMP script when compiling. If you encounter an error with the script read and write file permissions, you need to set `User Script Sandboxing` to `No` in `Xcode -> Build Setting`.

### Running Ohos APP

Ensure environment preparation is complete before building:
1. In `KuiklyUI` root director Run kuikly Ohos product compile script, `./2.0_ohos_test_publish.sh`
2. Open `KuiklyUI/ohosApp` in DevEco Studio and sync project
3. Connect to Ohos Phone or start the Ohos Emulator, and perform a signature operation `File -> Project Structure -> Signing Configs`
4. Use DevEco Studio Run `entry`, Run OhosApp  

Notes: kuikly Ohos product only supports Mac compilation, Windows can use the compiled ohos product to run Ohos APP.

### Kotlin Version Support
The KuiklyUI directory contains Gradle configurations for various `Kotlin versions`:

Naming convention: `x.x.xx.gradle.kts` (default uses Kotlin 2.0.21)

Test publishing scripts for each version are available as `x.x.xx_test_publish.sh` for building local artifacts.

> Note: Kotlin 1.3.10/1.4.20 require JDK11

After successful build on any platform, you can modify Core, Render, and Demo to experience `Kuikly` development.

### Quick Demo Experience
<div style="display: inline-block; text-align: left;">
  <img src="img/kuikly_demo_android_qr.png" width="200">
</div>

Scan the QR code with an Android phone to quickly try the demo. For iPhone and HarmonyOS phones, please follow the steps above to compile and experience the demo app from the source code.

## Roadmap
[Roadmap (2025)](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/Blog/roadmap2025.html)

## Contribution Guidelines
We welcome all developers to submit issues or PRs for `Kuikly`. Please review our [Contribution Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before contributing.

## Code of Conduct
All project participants are expected to adhere to our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Participation constitutes agreement to these terms.

## FAQs
[`Kuikly` Q&A](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/QA/kuikly-qa.html)

## Contributors
- Special thanks to the first batch of contributors tom(邱良雄), kam(林锦涛), and watson(金盎), who not only pioneered the incubation and exploration of the Kuikly cross-platform solutions in the frontend field, but also were the first to implement them in the QQ business.
- Thanks to the following core contributors for the continuous construction, maintenance, development and optimization of `Kuikly`:
 <br>tom kam watson rocky jonas ruifan pel layen bird zealot zhenhua vinney xuanxi arnon alexa allens eason

## Application Cases
### Application Integration
At Tencent, Kuikly has been deeply used by 20+ applications, covering 1,000+ pages and serving 500 million+ daily active users, meeting diverse complex requirements across various scenarios.
<div style="display: inline-block; text-align: left;">
  <img src="img/applications.png" width="85%">
</div>
Since going open-source, more external applications beyond Tencent have been actively adopting Kuikly. Additional use cases will be progressively shared upon obtaining approval from respective partners.

### Scenario Examples
For typical business application scenarios, please refer to: [Application Scenario Cases](https://kuikly.tds.qq.com/Introduction/application_cases.html)

## Stay Connected
Scan the QR codes below to follow our latest updates or contact us for inquiries.
<p align="left">
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center; margin-right: 20px;">
        <div>TDS WeChat Official Account</div>
        <img alt="TDS" src="img/tds_qrcode.jpg" width="200" />
    </div>
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center; margin-right: 20px;">
        <div>TDS Framework WeChat Official Account</div>
        <img alt="TDS Framework WeChat Official Account" src="img/tds_framework_qrcode.jpg" width="200" />
    </div>
    <div style="display: inline-block; text-align: center;">
        <div>Online Support</div>
        <img alt="Online Consult" src="img/consult_qrcode.png" width="200" />
    </div>
</p>
